[DOCS-14139] CCM FinOps/Cloud Cost skill in Bits Assistant (#36709)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/cloud_cost_management/finops_skill.md

---
title: FinOps Skill in Bits Assistant

> description: Learn about using the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant to investigate, explain, and share cloud cost findings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant to investigate, explain, and share cloud cost findings.
```

aliases:
- /cloud_cost_management/finops_agent/
- /cloud_cost_management/ccm_ai/
algolia:

>   tags: ["cloud cost", "cloud cost management", "ccm", "finops", "FinOps skill", "bits assistant", "mcp"]

Reviewer: p sure algolia tags are case insensitive (per [this page](https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/docs4docs/pages/3169420048/Customizing+search+results)) so just changing this to lowercase for consistency
```suggestion
  tags: ["cloud cost", "cloud cost management", "ccm", "finops", "finops skill", "bits assistant", "mcp"]
```

  rank: 75
further_reading:
- link: "/bits_ai/bits_assistant/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Bits Assistant"
- link: "/bits_ai/mcp_server/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Datadog MCP Server"
- link: "/cloud_cost_management/reporting/explorer/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cost Explorer"
- link: "/cloud_cost_management/planning/budgets/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Budgets"
---

{{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/bits-assistant/" btn_hidden="false" header="FinOps skill is in Preview" >}}
The FinOps skill runs in Bits Assistant. Fill out the Bits Assistant Preview form to request access.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

> The FinOps skill is the Cloud Cost Management analysis workflow in [Bits Assistant][1]. It is designed for root cause analysis (RCA), budget follow-up, and general cost questions. For example, you can ask Bits Assistant to:

Reviewer: The RCA abbreviation is never used, so we can drop it

```suggestion
The FinOps skill is the Cloud Cost Management analysis workflow in [Bits Assistant][1]. It is designed for root cause analysis, budget tracking, and general cost questions. For example, you can ask Bits Assistant to:
```

> - Investigate [cost monitor alerts][2], [cost anomalies][3], and cost changes on the [Summarize][4] page

Reviewer: Feels slightly odd to me to link out to separate pages for "cost monitor alerts" and "cost anomalies" when this line is about details on the Summarize page, but I'll defer to you

Author: Actually, it's only the cost changes that's on the summarize page, the other two are on the linked pages. Maybe I should just remove the "Summarize page" part:

```suggestion
- Investigate [cost monitor alerts][2], [cost anomalies][3], and [cost changes][4]
```

- Identify teams, services, accounts, regions, or resources driving spend.

> - Answer ad hoc questions about cloud, SaaS, custom, or Datadog costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Get answers to ad hoc questions about cloud, SaaS, custom, or Datadog costs
```

- Compare actual spend and forecasts against [budgets][5].
- Correlate cost changes with observability metrics, such as CPU, memory, request volume, or storage size.

> - Create [Notebooks][15] that capture an investigation for handoff or future reference.

Reviewer: Removing periods since these are all fragments.
```suggestion
- Investigate [cost monitor alerts][2], [cost anomalies][3], and cost changes on the [Summarize][4] page
- Identify teams, services, accounts, regions, or resources driving spend
- Answer ad hoc questions about cloud, SaaS, custom, or Datadog costs
- Compare actual spend and forecasts against [budgets][5]
- Correlate cost changes with observability metrics, such as CPU, memory, request volume, or storage size
- Create [Notebooks][15] that capture an investigation for handoff or future reference
```

## Prerequisites

To use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant, you must:

- [Set up Cloud Cost Management][6] for the cost sources you want to analyze.
- Have these permissions:
  - [Bits Assistant Access][7] permission
  - [Cloud Cost Management permissions][8] for the data you ask about

>   - (Optional) [Notebook permissions][9], if you want to create or edit investigation [Notebooks][15].

Reviewer: Removing periods since these are all fragments.
```suggestion
- [Set up Cloud Cost Management][6] for the cost sources you want to analyze
- Have these permissions:
  - [Bits Assistant Access][7] permission
  - [Cloud Cost Management permissions][8] for the data you ask about
  - (Optional) [Notebook permissions][9], if you want to create or edit investigation [Notebooks][15]
```

> ## FinOps skill in Bits Assistant

Reviewer: This H2 restates the page title. Can we give it a more specific heading? Maybe something like "## Access the FinOps skill" or "## Start a FinOps investigation"

Author: ```suggestion
## Start an investigation with the FinOps skill
```

{{< img src="cloud_cost/finops_skill_anomalies.png" alt="Cost anomalies graphs showing the Investigate with Bits AI button in each graph." style="width:80%;" >}}

> Click {{< ui >}}Investigate{{< /ui >}} or {{< img src="bits_ai/dev_agent/twinkling_stars_icon.png" inline="true" style="width:24px">}} (the twinkling stars icon) to open the FinOps skill.

Reviewer: Can we add a little phrase about where? E.g., "on a such and such panel, click Investigate"

Also, in the UI on my end, the Investigate and the twinkling stars are all part of one button, not two distinct ones. Can we confirm the UI?

Author: Whether you see the twinkling stars or Investigate depends on which page and graph you are looking at. For example:

<img width="191" height="191" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/98eba639-7494-4727-9cc7-e903c9c86449" />

 
```suggestion
When you want to start an investigation, such as for a [cost anomaly], click {{< ui >}}Investigate{{< /ui >}} or {{< img src="bits_ai/dev_agent/twinkling_stars_icon.png" inline="true" style="width:24px">}} (the twinkling stars icon) to open the FinOps skill.
```

> Click {{< ui >}}Investigate{{< /ui >}} or {{< img src="bits_ai/dev_agent/twinkling_stars_icon.png" inline="true" style="width:24px">}} (the twinkling stars icon) to trigger the FinOps skill.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click {{< ui >}}Investigate{{< /ui >}} or {{< img src="bits_ai/dev_agent/twinkling_stars_icon.png" inline="true" style="width:24px">}} (the twinkling stars icon) to open the FinOps skill.
```

> Alternatively, you can click {{< ui >}}Ask Bits{{< /ui >}} on the top left of any Datadog page to open the Bits Assistant and ask a cost question.

Reviewer: I think the Ask Bits button is the top right of the nav bar.

Author: Didn't realize that that was a nav bar at the top :D

```suggestion
Alternatively, you can click {{< ui >}}Ask Bits{{< /ui >}} on the top right of the navigation bar on any Datadog page to open the Bits Assistant and ask a cost question.
```

Example prompts:

- `Investigate why EC2 costs increased last week for team:payments.`
- `Which teams are responsible for the highest S3 storage costs this month?`
- `Why is the infrastructure budget projected to go over this month?`
- `Show total cloud cost by provider for the last 30 complete days.`
- `Find optimization opportunities for idle or over-provisioned cloud infrastructure.`

### Cost change investigations

> When you use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant to investigate a cost change, Bits Assistant provides a concise summary and then asks what you want to explore next. The initial analysis typically includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you investigate a cost change with the FinOps skill, Bits Assistant provides a concise summary, then asks what you want to explore next. The initial analysis typically includes:
```

- A daily cost chart for the baseline and investigation periods.

> - The baseline period, investigation period, total dollar amount and percentage change, and projected annual impact when applicable.

Reviewer: "Total dollar amount and percentage change" can read two ways: (a) one combined thing -- the total of [dollar amount + percentage change], or (b) two separate items -- the total dollar amount and the percentage change. Attempted restructure:
```suggestion
- The baseline and investigation periods, the total dollar and percentage change, and the projected annual impact when applicable
```

- Rate-versus-usage context to help distinguish price changes from consumption changes.

> - Owner or team attribution based on your cost tags.

Reviewer: Removing periods since these are all fragments.
```suggestion
- A daily cost chart for the baseline and investigation periods
- The baseline period, investigation period, total dollar amount and percentage change, and projected annual impact when applicable
- Rate-versus-usage context to help distinguish price changes from consumption changes
- Owner or team attribution based on your cost tags
```

{{< img src="cloud_cost/finops_skill_cost_summary.png" alt="Bits Assistant's investigation summary showing an initial analysis." style="width:60%;" >}}

After the initial summary, Bits Assistant can:

- Find the top services, accounts, regions, resources, or tags driving the change.
- Correlate the cost change with metrics such as CPU requests, memory requests, request count, bucket size, or database usage.
- Find related budgets and compare actual or forecasted spend against budget targets.
- Create a Datadog Notebook for the team that owns the service to confirm and act on findings.

> - Capture the investigation for your records in a Notebook.

Reviewer: Removing periods since these are all fragments.
```suggestion
- Find the top services, accounts, regions, resources, or tags driving the change
- Correlate the cost change with metrics such as CPU requests, memory requests, request count, bucket size, or database usage
- Find related budgets and compare actual or forecasted spend against budget targets
- Create a Datadog Notebook for the team that owns the service to confirm and act on findings
- Capture the investigation for your records in a Notebook
```

### Budgets and forecasting

After setting up [Budgets][5], use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant to explain budget status and spending. Bits Assistant can help summarize:

- Actual spend versus budgeted amount.
- Forecasted spend versus budgeted amount.
- Which cost scope a budget covers, based on the budget's filters.

> - Which budget entries, teams, services, or providers are contributing to an overage.

Reviewer: Removing periods since these are all fragments.
```suggestion
- Actual spend versus budgeted amount
- Forecasted spend versus budgeted amount
- Which cost scope a budget covers, based on the budget's filters
- Which budget entries, teams, services, or providers are contributing to an overage
```

After the initial summary, Bits Assistant can:

- Find the top services, accounts, regions, resources, or tags driving spending.
- Identify the teams that own the resources contributing to the cost change.
- Update your budget.

> - Capture the investigation for your records in a Notebook.

Reviewer: Removing periods since these are all fragments.
```suggestion
- Find the top services, accounts, regions, resources, or tags driving spending
- Identify the teams that own the resources contributing to the cost change
- Update your budget
- Capture the investigation for your records in a Notebook
```

## Use the Datadog MCP Server for cost analysis

The [Datadog MCP Server][10] lets external AI agents query Datadog data. This is useful when you want to ask cost questions from an IDE, terminal-based assistant, or custom AI workflow.

To use an external AI agent, [set up the Datadog MCP Server][11]. If your MCP client filters toolsets, include the `core` toolset to use the metric tools that can query Cloud Cost Management data.

Cloud Cost Management data is available through the core metric tools:

| MCP tool                          | Usage                                 |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- |

> | [`get_datadog_metric`][12]         | Query cost metrics, compare periods, and group costs by provider, service, team, account, resource, or tag. Ask your agent to set `use_cloud_cost` to `true` for CCM cost metrics. |

Reviewer: This row and the next both end with "Ask your agent to set `use_cloud_cost` to `true` for CCM cost metrics," and then line 120 adds further context for the `use_cloud_cost` flag. This feels a bit disjointed. Maybe we could we pull the "Ask your agent to..." bit out of the table and consolidate with line 120 in a single sentence beneath the table?

Author: Thanks, updated!

| [`get_datadog_metric_context`][13] | Discover metadata, available tag keys, and tag values for a cost metric before querying it. Ask your agent to set `use_cloud_cost` to `true` for CCM cost metrics.               |

Example prompts for MCP-connected agents:

- `Use Datadog MCP to query cloud cost data. Set use_cloud_cost=true and show daily all.cost grouped by provider for the last 30 complete days.`
- `Use get_datadog_metric_context with use_cloud_cost=true to find available tags for aws.cost.net.amortized.shared.resources.allocated, then group EC2 costs by team.`
- `Compare this week's complete EC2 cost to the previous week and explain which teams or accounts changed the most.`

> Use the cloud cost flag only for Cloud Cost Management metrics such as `all.cost`, `aws.cost.*`, `azure.cost.*`, `gcp.cost.*`, `oci.cost.*`, `custom.cost.*`, or `datadog.cost.*`. For observability metrics that explain a cost change, such as Kubernetes CPU or S3 bucket size, use the standard metric query behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `use_cloud_cost` flag only for Cloud Cost Management metrics such as `all.cost`, `aws.cost.*`, `azure.cost.*`, `gcp.cost.*`, `oci.cost.*`, `custom.cost.*`, or `datadog.cost.*`. For observability metrics that explain a cost change, such as Kubernetes CPU or S3 bucket size, use the standard metric query behavior.
```

---
title: FinOps Skill in Bits Assistant
description: Use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant and the Datadog MCP Server to investigate, explain, and share cloud cost findings.
aliases:
- /cloud_cost_management/finops_agent/
- /cloud_cost_management/ccm_ai/
algolia:
  tags: ["cloud cost", "cloud cost management", "ccm", "finops", "FinOps skill", "bits assistant", "mcp"]
  rank: 75
further_reading:
- link: "/bits_ai/bits_assistant/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Bits Assistant"
- link: "/bits_ai/mcp_server/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Datadog MCP Server"
- link: "/cloud_cost_management/reporting/explorer/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cost Explorer"
- link: "/cloud_cost_management/planning/budgets/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Budgets"
---

{{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/bits-assistant/" btn_hidden="false" header="FinOps skill is in Preview" >}}
The FinOps skill runs in Bits Assistant. Fill out the Bits Assistant Preview form to request access.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

> The FinOps skill is the Cloud Cost Management analysis workflow in [Bits Assistant][1]. It is designed for root cause analysis (RCA), budget follow-up, and general cost questions. You can use the skill for guided cost investigations, cost explanations, and to share cost findings. For example:

Reviewer 2: "You can use the skill for guided cost investigations, cost explanations, and to share cost findings" 
NIT: This feels a bit repetitive with the sentence right before it

Author: Agree, I meant to cut one of the lines. I'll remove the second one.

```suggestion
The FinOps skill is the Cloud Cost Management analysis workflow in [Bits Assistant][1]. It is designed for root cause analysis (RCA), budget follow-up, and general cost questions. For example, you can ask Bits Assistant to:
```

- Investigate cost changes, anomalies, and cost monitor alerts.
- Identify teams, services, accounts, regions, or resources driving spend.
- Answer ad hoc questions about cloud, SaaS, custom, or Datadog costs.

> - Compare actual spend and forecasts against [budgets][2].

Reviewer 2: Just curious if there is a reason this budgets links to the docs but not the ones that come before? Is there a standard here? For example linking it every time, or linking it the first time?

Author: Claude had added it so I left it, but I'll either remove or add links to the other ones if we keep the list here.

Author: Added the links.

- Correlate cost changes with observability metrics, such as CPU, memory, request volume, or storage size.
- Create Datadog Notebooks that capture an investigation for handoff or future reference.

## Prerequisites

To use the FinOps skill for Bits Assistant, you must:

- [Set up Cloud Cost Management][3] for the cost sources you want to analyze.
- Have these permissions:
  - [Bits Assistant Access][4] permission
  - [Cloud Cost Management permissions][5] for the data you ask about
  - (Optional) [Notebook permissions][6], if you want to create or edit investigation notebooks.

## FinOps skill in Bits Assistant

> {{< img src="cloud_cost/budgets_bits_assistant.png" alt="The Budgets page showing over-budget items with an Investigate button to trigger the FinOps skill" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer 3: Can we include a different main screenshot to better showcase the agent’s capability? Maybe one that shows Bits Assistant's initial prompt and output

Author: @asatija12 would you be able to slack me a screenshot from demo org with what you are thinking?

Click {{< ui >}}Investigate{{< /ui >}} or {{< img src="bits_ai/dev_agent/twinkling_stars_icon.png" inline="true" style="width:24px">}} (the twinkling stars icon) to trigger the FinOps skill in areas such as:

- [Budgets][7]
- [Cost monitors][8] that are triggered
- [Cost anomalies][9]
- The Investigate Cost Changes section of the [Summarize][10] page

> - The Total Cost Change section on the [Explorer][11] page

Reviewer 2: Do we really need this list? While I know this list is specifically for the investigate buttons, it feels just extremely repetitive to the fact that we listed very similar stuff in the overview at the top. For example the user already knows they can edit budgets.
I feel like the line above saying to click the investigate buttons is probably enough and users can find them pretty easily across the CCM product without a doc telling them exactly where they exist

Author: I agree. I think having it in the Overview section makes sense, will remove this list, unless @asatija12 has thoughts about it.

Author: I removed the list.

Reviewer 3: Agree on removing here since we have it in the overview as well!

Alternatively, you can click {{< ui >}}Ask Bits{{< /ui >}} on the top left of any Datadog page to open the Bits Assistant and ask a cost question.

Example prompts for cost changes:

- `Investigate why EC2 costs increased last week for team:payments.`
- `Which services drove the largest AWS cost increase between March and April?`
- `Is this cost change putting any budgets at risk?`
- `Which teams are responsible for the highest S3 storage costs this month?`
- `Create a handoff notebook for the team that owns this cost spike.`

Example prompts for budgets and spending:

- `Why is the infrastructure budget projected to go over this month?`
- `Show actual and forecasted spend for the payments team budget.`
- `Does last week's EC2 cost increase affect any active budgets?`

Example prompts for exploratory cost questions:

- `Show total cloud cost by provider for the last 30 complete days.`
- `What are our top Kubernetes namespace costs this month?`
- `What cost tags are available for breaking down GCP spend?`

> - `Find optimization opportunities for idle or over-provisioned cloud infrastructure.`

Reviewer 2: Seems like a lot of example questions. Do we think we need this many and to split it up into multiple sections? Seems excessive

Reviewer 3: +1, I'd recommend 3-5 and combine the types of examples

Author: Okay let me know which ones you want to keep. I just kept whatever Claude had created because I wasn't sure what we wanted.

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest keeping:

- Investigate why EC2 costs increased last week for team:payments.
- Which teams are responsible for the highest S3 storage costs this month?
- Why is the infrastructure budget projected to go over this month?
- Show total cloud cost by provider for the last 30 complete days.
- Find optimization opportunities for idle or over-provisioned cloud infrastructure.

### Cost change investigations

When you use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant to investigate a cost change, Bits Assistant provides a concise summary and then asks what you want to explore next. The initial analysis typically includes:

- A daily cost chart for the baseline and investigation periods.
- The baseline period, investigation period, total dollar and percentage change, and projected annual impact when applicable.
- Rate-versus-usage context to help distinguish price changes from consumption changes.
- Owners or teams attribution based on your cost tags.

> - A link to open the query in Cost Explorer.

Reviewer 2: This doc is feeling a bit verbose. Do we really need a full list here? Or another idea, what if we provided a screenshot instead as an example?

Author: We typically don't describe the UI in the docs and keep content instructional, but I think this overview could be helpful here. We can remove the `A link to open the query in Cost Explorer`.

@asatija12 what do you think?

A screenshot could work to break up the verbosity. The only thing about screenshots is keeping it updated, so if changes to the initial summary will be happening, I'd recommend not using a screenshot. It's easier to update text.

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest a screenshot of Bits Assistant with all these things in view. We will likely not be making significant changes anytime soon and if we did change something drastically, the text would change in a big way too.

Author: After playing around with the text, I'm going to keep some of the text, but cut it down because even with an image, we still need to describe it in the alt text if it's not explained in the main content.

Author: It'll be similar to what's in the Bits AI security Analyst doc: https://docs.datadoghq.com/bits_ai/bits_ai_security_analyst#key-capabilities

Cost data can lag behind real time. By default, the FinOps skill uses complete cost days and compares equal-length periods so it does not over-explain incomplete data.

After the initial summary, choose from guided follow-up paths:

1. {{< ui >}}Cost Breakdown{{< /ui >}} - Find the top services, accounts, regions, resources, or tags driving the change.
1. {{< ui >}}Observability{{< /ui >}} - Correlate the cost change with metrics such as CPU requests, memory requests, request count, bucket size, or database usage.
1. {{< ui >}}Check Budget Impact{{< /ui >}} - Find related budgets and compare actual or forecasted spend against budget targets.
1. {{< ui >}}Create Handoff Notebook{{< /ui >}} - Create a Datadog Notebook for the team that owns the service to confirm and act on findings.
1. {{< ui >}}Save to Notebook{{< /ui >}} - Capture the investigation for your records.

> 1. {{< ui >}}Look up Communication Channel{{< /ui >}} - Find a team communication channel when ownership metadata is available in Datadog.

Reviewer 2: I am curious if we need/want this? Again feels very verbose. Given this is subject to change would it not make more sense to say that the agent provides guided followups but not go into detail on every one of them

Although maybe my opinion is off and customers like the extra details

Reviewer 3: I agree - I think we should describe the gist of the next step actions.

Reviewer 3: Or have a screenshot that shows the next steps as the assistant's output? Maybe that is frowned upon though and requires the user to read text on an image. I'd probably just stick to describing the next steps or naming the top ones (drill deeper, save to a Notebook, ask about communication channels)

### Budgets and forecasting

> If you set up [Budgets][2], use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant to explain budget status and spending. Bits Assistant can help summarize:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After setting up [Budgets][2], use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant to explain budget status and spending. Bits Assistant can help summarize:
```

Very much an extreme NIT, I think this sounds better personally 🤷

- Actual spend versus budgeted amount.
- Forecasted spend versus budgeted amount.
- Which cost scope a budget covers, based on the budget's filters.
- Which budget entries, teams, services, or providers are contributing to an overage.

> After the initial summary, choose from guided follow-up paths:

Reviewer 2: same thoughts as above, do we really need to say this in the docs beyond you can follow up in general

---
title: FinOps Skill in Bits Assistant
description: Use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant and the Datadog MCP Server to investigate, explain, and share cloud cost findings.
aliases:
- /cloud_cost_management/finops_agent/
- /cloud_cost_management/ccm_ai/
algolia:
  tags: ["cloud cost", "cloud cost management", "ccm", "finops", "FinOps skill", "bits assistant", "mcp"]
  rank: 75
further_reading:
- link: "/bits_ai/bits_assistant/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Bits Assistant"
- link: "/bits_ai/mcp_server/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Datadog MCP Server"
- link: "/cloud_cost_management/reporting/explorer/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cost Explorer"
- link: "/cloud_cost_management/planning/budgets/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Budgets"
---

{{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" header="FinOps skill is in Preview" >}}
The FinOps skill runs in Bits Assistant. Fill out the [Bits Assistant Preview form][8] to request access.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

> <div class="alert alert-info">This page describes how to use AI to analyze costs in Cloud Cost Management. It is not a guide on monitoring AI provider spend. To ingest SaaS or AI provider costs into CCM, see <a href="/cloud_cost_management/setup/saas_costs/">SaaS Cost Integrations</a>.</div>

Author: Do we want to keep this? Seems like this was added because of the Claude prompt.

Reviewer 3: I think now that the doc is titled "FinOps Skill" and not "AI in CCM", we can remove this disclaimer!

Author: Thanks, removing!

```suggestion
```

Alternatively, you can click {{< ui >}}Ask Bits{{< /ui >}} on the top left of any Datadog page to open the Bits Assistant and ask a cost question.

Example prompts for cost changes:

- `Investigate why EC2 costs increased last week for team:payments.`
- `Which services drove the largest AWS cost increase between March and April?`
- `Is this cost change putting any budgets at risk?`
- `Which teams are responsible for the highest S3 storage costs this month?`
- `Create a handoff notebook for the team that owns this cost spike.`

Example prompts for budgets and spendings:

- `Why is the infrastructure budget projected to go over this month?`
- `Show actual and forecasted spend for the payments team budget.`
- `Does last week's EC2 cost increase affect any active budgets?`

Example prompts for exploratory cost questions:

- `Show total cloud cost by provider for the last 30 complete days.`
- `What are our top Kubernetes namespace costs this month?`
- `What cost tags are available for breaking down GCP spend?`
- `Find optimization opportunities for idle or over-provisioned cloud infrastructure.`

### Cost change investigations

> When you use the FinOps skill Bits Assistant to investigate a cost change, Bits Assistant provides a concise summary and then asks what you want to explore next. The initial analysis typically includes:

Author: ```suggestion
When you use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant to investigate a cost change, Bits Assistant provides a concise summary and then asks what you want to explore next. The initial analysis typically includes:
```

- A daily cost chart for the baseline and investigation periods.
- The baseline period, investigation period, total dollar and percentage change, and projected annual impact when applicable.
- Rate-versus-usage context to help distinguish price changes from consumption changes.
- Owners or teams attribution based on your cost tags.
- A link to open the query in Cost Explorer.

> Cost data can lag behind real time. By default, the FinOps skill uses complete cost days and compares equal-length periods so it does not over-explain incomplete data.

Author: Is this correct?

Reviewer 2: Honestly this just feels like an implementation detail. The agent mostly tries its best here to follow what a user would want, but I am not sure if we need to document it or not? Curious if other have any thoughts

Author: Is this information that customer would ask about? Also, what does "over-explain" incomplete data mean here?

Reviewer 2: I guess it is more that this is not really AI specific. This is just general ccm guidance. It should be covered elsewhere in the docs already, so to me at least it feels out of place talking about it here

Author: Ah okay, makes sense to remove from here if it's general CCM guidance. Removing it.

1. {{< ui >}}Check Budget Impact{{< /ui >}} - Find related budgets and compare actual or forecasted spend against budget targets.
1. {{< ui >}}Create Handoff Notebook{{< /ui >}} - Create a Datadog Notebook for the team that owns the service to confirm and act on findings.
1. {{< ui >}}Save to Notebook{{< /ui >}} - Capture the investigation for your records.
1. {{< ui >}}Look up Communication Channel{{< /ui >}} - Find a team communication channel when ownership metadata is available in Datadog.

### Budgets and forecasting

If you set up [Budgets][3], use the FinOps skill in Bits Assistant to explain budget status and spending. Bits Assistant can help summarize:

- Actual spend versus budgeted amount.
- Forecasted spend versus budgeted amount.
- Which cost scope a budget covers, based on the budget's filters.
- Which budget entries, teams, services, or providers are contributing to an overage.

After the initial summary, choose from guided follow-up paths:

1. {{< ui >}}Cost Breakdown{{< /ui >}} - Find the top services, accounts, regions, resources, or tags driving spending.
1. {{< ui >}}Identify Owners{{< /ui >}} TKTK

> 1. {{< ui >}}Adjust Budget{{< /ui >}} TKTK

Author: Need help with descriptions

Reviewer 3: - **Identify Owners:** See the team(s) owning the resources contributing to the cost change
- **Adjust Budget:** Navigates the user to the Edit Budget page to update the budget
